How I Launched an AWS EC2 Ubuntu Instance, Connected via SSH, and Deployed a Website with Nginx
Introduction

As I continue my AWS Cloud & DevOps journey, I wanted to document my step-by-step process of:
Launching an AWS EC2 Ubuntu instance
Connecting via SSH using Git Bash
Installing Nginx

Deploying a custom HTML/CSS webpage

This is a great beginner-friendly project for anyone starting with AWS, Linux, and web servers!

Step 1: Launching an AWS EC2 Ubuntu Instance
Log in to AWS Console
Go to AWS Console and sign in.
Navigate to EC2 Dashboard
Search for EC2 in the AWS services search bar.
Launch an Instance
Click "Launch Instance" → Name it 
Select Ubuntu Server 
Choose t2.micro (Free Tier eligible).
Create a new key pair (e.g., web-server-key.pem) and download it.
Keep all other settings default and click "Launch Instance".

Note the Public IPv4 DNS

After launch, go to EC2 Instances → Copy the Public IPv4 DNS (e.g., ec2-12-34-56-7.compute-1.amazonaws.com).

Step 2: Connecting to EC2 via SSH (Git Bash)
Open Git Bash (Windows) or Terminal (Mac/Linux).

Navigate to the folder where your .pem key is stored.

bash
cd ~/Downloads  # or wherever your key is
Set secure permissions for the key:

bash
chmod 400 web-server-key.pem
SSH into the EC2 instance:

bash
ssh -i "web-server-key.pem" ubuntu@ec2-12-34-56-78.compute-1.amazonaws.com
Type yes if prompted about authenticity.

✅ You’re now connected to your Ubuntu EC2 instance!

Step 3: Installing Nginx (Web Server)
Update Ubuntu packages:

command:-
sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade -y
Install Nginx:

command:-
sudo apt install nginx -y
Start & Enable Nginx:

command:-
sudo systemctl start nginx
sudo systemctl enable nginx
Check if Nginx is running:

command:-
sudo systemctl status nginx
You should see active (running).

Test in Browser

Open your browser and enter your EC2 Public IPv4 
Important https will not work you need to writr http go see runing server

You should see the Nginx welcome page!

Step 4: Deploying a Custom HTML/CSS Website
Navigate to Nginx’s default web directory:

command:-
cd /var/www/html
Remove default Nginx page:

command:-
sudo rm index.nginx-debian.html
Create a new index.html file using Vim:

bash
sudo vim index.html
Paste the HTML/CSS code (Press i to enter insert mode):
to save press esc and :wq 

done done done done 
